More TR edits (#1335)
hadley/r4ds: data-transform.qmd

### dplyr basics

You're about to learn the primary dplyr verbs (functions) which will allow you to solve the vast majority of your data manipulation challenges.
But before we discuss their individual differences, it's worth stating what they have in common:

1.  The first argument is always a data frame.

2.  The subsequent arguments typically describe which columns to operate on, using the variable names (without quotes).

3.  The result is always a new data frame.

> Since the functionality of each verb is limited, solving complex problems will usually require combining multiple verbs, and we'll do so with the pipe, `|>`.

Reviewer: What about "Because each verb does one thing well" ?

  filter(month == 1 | 2)
```

This "works", in the sense that it doesn't throw an error, but it doesn't do what you want because `|` first checks the condition `month == 1` and then checks the condition `2`, which is not a sensible condition to check.
We'll learn more about what's happening here and why in @sec-boolean-operations.

### `arrange()`

`arrange()` changes the order of the rows based on the value of the columns.
It takes a data frame and a set of column names (or more complicated expressions) to order by.
If you provide more than one column name, each additional column will be used to break ties in the values of preceding columns.
For example, the following code sorts by the departure time, which is spread over four columns.
We get the earliest years first, then within a year the earliest months, etc.

```{r}
flights |> 
  arrange(year, month, day, dep_time)
```

> You can use `desc()` to re-order the data frame based a column, in descending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `desc()` to re-order the data frame based a column in descending order.
```

But while the previous text was technically incorrect, I think it gets the message across more clearly.

Author: > You can use `desc()` to re-order the data frame by a column in descending order.

This seems like a good middle ground.

> For example, this code shows the most delayed flights on top:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, this code shows the most delayed flights first:
```

flights |> 
  group_by(month) |> 
  summarize(
    avg_delay = mean(dep_delay)
  )
```

Uhoh!
Something has gone wrong and all of our results are `NA`s (pronounced "N-A"), R's symbol for missing value.
This happened because some of the observed flights had missing data in the delay column, and so when we calculated the mean including those values, we got an `NA` result.

> We'll come back to discuss missing values in detail in @sec-missing-values, but for now we'll tell the `mean()` function to ignore all missing values by adding the setting the argument `na.rm` to `TRUE`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll come back to discuss missing values in detail in @sec-missing-values, but for now we'll tell the `mean()` function to ignore all missing values by setting the argument `na.rm` to `TRUE`:
```

### Ungrouping

You might also want to remove grouping from a data frame without using `summarize()`.
You can do this with `ungroup()`.

```{r}
daily |> 
  ungroup()
```

> Now let's summarize see whathappens when you summarize an ungrouped data frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's see what happens when you summarize an ungrouped data frame.
```

    )
    ```

>     a.  Write down what you think the output will look like, then check if you were correct, and describe what `group_by()` does.

Reviewer: Make this an unordered list to match the exercises you changed above?

Author: These are parts (a), (b), (c), etc., should be completed consecutively, vs. the other one was filtering for all of those conditions at once (or at least I thought so). If not, I should bring the other one back.
